I am Joséde San Martín born in 1778 in Yapeyu,
current day Argentina. I am soldier and
statesman who played an important role
in winning the independence of several
South American countries from Spain.
At the age of 7, I returned to Spain with my
parents and entered the Royal Academy as a cadet
and was educated there with sons of the nobility
of Spain. I acquired the rank of lieutenant
colonel after fighting in some campaigns
against French forces in the Peninsular War.
Hearing of the revolt against Spain in Argentina,
I resigned from the army in 1812 and sailed for
Buenos Aires to join the patriot forces. I took
a prominent part in organizing Argentine troops
and soon became military governor of the
north to organize defense in Upper Peru.
I spent 3 years in the Andes recruiting
and training my army to dislodge the
Spanish forces from Chile, Peru, and Bolivia.
We took the Spanish army by surprise in Chile
in 1817 and made Chile completely free of Spanish
troops. I assembled a fleet which, under the able
command of Lord Cochrane, swept Spanish shipping
from the west coast of South America. In 1820,
my army was transported toward Peru. 1 year later,
my forces proclaimed the independence of Peru.
Since Spanish army had merely withdrawn into
the mountains and was still a viable fighting
force and a threat. I did not have enough force
to meet the Spaniards and would need the aid
of the armies of another liberator, Bolívar,
who had just liberated the areas of Venezuela,
Colombia, and Ecuador.
We met at Guayaquil which is
marked as one of the most disputed points in South
American history. I preferred a constitutional
monarchy while Bolívar believed in complete
democracy. That disagreement led to resigning all
my power in Peru to the congress and leaving for
Argentina and then to France where I died in 1850.
The soldiers of our land know no luxury,
but glory. My men and I fought fearlessly
for freedom and rights that I hope
people are blessed with to this day.